[WHOOSH]
[ELECTRICITY]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>Of all the various kinds
of UFO related phenomena
that have materialized,
the so-called light spheres
certainly hold a
particularly important place.
These objects have recently
gained greater popularity,
thanks in part to
the studies conducted
by Dr. Eltjo Haselhoff.
According to his theory,
the light spheres
could be the cause behind
crop circles, with which they
have often been associated.
But the spheres began to
appear many years ago.
During the Second World
War airplane pilots
on both sides of the war
reported on several occasions
that they were flanked by
mysterious light spheres
during their missions.
These spheres could
execute maneuvers
that would have been impossible
for the pilots' airplanes.
Their many attempts to outstrip
the spheres and avoid pursuit
were unsuccessful.
And, in fact, the
spheres often seemed
to anticipate the maneuvers
of even the most experienced
pilots.
They appeared in all
areas involved in the war,
from Europe to the Far East.
And it was soon clear that they
were not secret enemy weapons.
They were given the name Foo
Fighters, from a corruption
of the French word fuir.
The objects appear to be
glowing, bright spheres,
in colors ranging between
red, orange, yellow, white,
and green.
The instruments
aboard the planes
experienced malfunctioning
when these mysterious craft
appeared.
And once radar technology
became operative,
the pilots realized that
the craft were not detected
by their radar devices.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>>The phenomenon
of flying spheres
begins to manifest during
the Second World War,
during the air attacks among
American, English, German,
and, of course, Italian,
and Japanese air forces.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>>They all reported the
presence of these spheres.
Each of them thought they
were secret enemy's weapon.
And so they were frightened.
As they moved with
great freedom,
they could come very close to
or move away from airplanes,
almost passing between them.
>>The committees established by
both the Allies and the Germans
to investigate the
phenomenon did not officially
reach any serious result.
Initially the pilots
and their superiors
were bewildered,
and understandably afraid that
the spheres were secret enemy
weapons.
They later became
accustomed to this presence,
considering it innocuous.
According to the
pilots' statements
the objects were filmed
on several occasions,
but the films have
since been kept
in secret military archives.
Footage filmed by
random witnesses
began to appear in the 1950s.
These films showed the objects
both alone and in groups.
And what we see in the images
confirms the statements
made by the military pilots.
In this film we see
that the cameraman
has located a sphere
hovering in the sky,
and an airplane flying nearby.
Among the first to suggest
that these craft may be
extraterrestrial was the
Polish American George Adamski,
the first and most famous
of the contactees, that
is human beings who come into
repeated contact with beings
presumed to have come
from other worlds.
Adamski declared that
these flying objects
were remote controlled
surveying probes
that extraplanetary spaceships
had launched into Earth's
orbit for study purposes.
Their shape could be
spherical or disk like.
And their size could vary
from just a few centimeters
to several meters in diameter.
He filmed a number
of them in flight.
Over the course of the
years, further films
added to the wealth of footage
showing these mysterious craft,
giving a sense of continuity
to their mysterious presence
and origins.
This film was recorded
in January, 1976,
over Wiltshire during an
experimental Concorde flight.
It was filmed by British Airways
staff working on another plane.
The maneuvers that the
white sphere executes
are perfect examples of what the
military pilots had described
during the Second World War.
The object flies
beside the Concorde,
glides along its windows, and
then suddenly darts upward
at top speed.
In recent years these
probes have come ever closer
to cities, at times
flying literally
right above the rooftops,
sometimes even closer
to our streets.
Amongst the most
significant material
in which these probes
appear is this video,
recorded in the Capao Redondo
area of San Paolo, Brazil,
on January the 2nd, 1998.
This video is all
the more interesting
because the object
was sighted very close
to an inhabited area.
The object, which measures
approximately 20 centimeters,
made no noise, and was
found about 200 meters
from the young man who witnessed
it, Alan Bruno de Oliveira.
A remarkable number of
witnesses saw the apparatus
undergo transformations.
This was made possible by its
proximity to the witnesses,
as well as the duration
of the sighting.
Over the course of
half an hour the probe
completed several
transformations
above the houses
of Capao Redondo.
The movements that
the little craft made
suggest that a form
of intelligence
is driving it, halting
sharply, and suddenly changing
direction and speed.
It seems to have its own
propulsion mechanism.
These particular flying objects
were also sighted in Mexico.
This is one of the first of
these fascinating videos.
In Mexico City while a squadron
of military helicopters
was being filmed
during a public show
an apparently metal
object unexpectedly passed
between the terrestrial
craft, to the amazement
of the pilots who later
bore witness to the event.
This is a solid object.
We can see that it
stands out clearly
against the dark outline
of one of the helicopters.
It makes a diagonal,
descending trajectory.
And it is most
certainly equipped
with its own propulsion
system, because it
flies through the strong
vortex of air created
by the helicopters'
rotary blades
without experiencing
any disturbance.
Moreover, this demonstrates that
the object cannot be a sounding
balloon, a hot air balloon, or
any other kind of gas filled
object.
Now, we'll observe one of
these light spheres gracefully
floating near the slopes
of the volcano Popocatepetl
southeast of Mexico City.
This document shows another
one of these spheres flying
at a very low altitude above
the Mexican city of Guadalajara.
The two videos of this
particular type of phenomenon
that we're about to
show were recorded
in Mexico City in 1998.
The first just two
days before the second.
In these videos we see an
unidentified flying object
in broad daylight,
filmed on different days
near the same building.
In the first video
the object hovers
by the side of the building.
When the witness zooms
in, we can clearly
see the remarkable
brightness of the rosy color
that the sphere emanates.
In the second video,
recorded two days later,
we initially see a dark
object cross the sky.
After a brief stretch,
it begins to descend,
and we can perceive a
change in its brightness.
After a slow and
indecisive glide,
we see it move once again along
the side of the same building
shown in the previous video.
[SPEAKING SPANISH]
>>Then it rises again,
and slowly moves away.
[SPEAKING SPANISH]
>>Of the cases of
UFO contact that
have come to light
in recent years,
one of the most interesting
from a photographic perspective
is the case involving
Raul Dominguez of Mexico.
Dominguez has photographed
classic flying saucers, as well
as small spherical
ships like those
we've seen in these videos.
The objects seem to
be made of metal.
Dominguez reported that he
watched the objects suddenly
become transparent when an
airplane approached them,
only to return to
a metallic state
when the earthly
craft moved away.
One of the first films to
show the spheres in a group
was made in the United
States during the 1950s.
The phenomenon reappeared
in Mexico in the 1990s,
and in a rather
widespread manner.
The large number of objects
shown in these videos
caused quite a stir.
This video was
recorded in Mexico City
on October the 27th,
1992, by Ulises Trujillo.
These formations seem to
represent the constellations.
In Mexico they were
dubbed "flotillas."
In this short video one of
the objects increases speed,
and, flying vertically,
passes by a slower object.
The presence of
light spheres is not
limited to the skies
over our planet.
They have also been
sighted in space,
and filmed during both
American and Russian missions.
Extraordinary
early testimony was
provided by the
American astronaut
James McDivitt While flying
with the Gemini 4 in June, 1965,
he succeeded in filming a sphere
that had approached his ship.
>>I happened to
glance out one time,
and there against the black
sky was a white object.
The geometry of it was sort
of like a beer can or a Coke
can with a pencil
sticking out one
of the round edges at
about a 45 degree angle.
>>In this short film, recorded
by the astronauts of the Apollo
12, we see a white
sphere move quickly
above the Moon's surface.
While the Apollo 17 was
landing on the lunar surface
one of these white
spheres was filmed
as it moved to the side of
the earthly space module.
During mission STS 51 A of
the American Shuttle Discovery
in November 1984, an
apparently metal object
entered into the video
camera's field of vision,
making a quick
maneuver to the right,
and then disappearing again.
When watching the
scene again we can
see how the light and
shadows change as the object
moves, in correspondence with
the overall light and shadows
in the scene.
This was not the first
occasion in which
the video cameras
installed on the shuttle
detected these objects.
During mission STS
37 of April 1991,
a nearly identical
object was filmed.
This time the object didn't
disappear straight away,
but rather it swayed in
front of the video camera
long enough for us to observe
its features more closely.
In a close up we can observe
a slight swinging motion
as the object hovers
in front of the lens.
We can also evaluate
how its shadow changes
as it moves, indicating that
the object is three dimensional.
The next video is even
more extraordinary.
It was recorded in August 1991
by a Japanese colleague who
accompanied Russian
astronauts Volkov
and Krikalev on their mission.
Initially the images show
the shuttle bringing supplies
to the Mir Space Station.
Then the video camera
catches a glowing object
that stands out clearly
against the dark space outside.
The object seems to move.
But this is actually due to
the unsteady hand of the person
recording the video.
Later the footage
moves for a few seconds
to the Earth's surface.
When the camera returns to
the glowing object filmed
previously, we see that it's
distance from the planet
has decreased, and it is quickly
approaching our atmosphere.
It then disappears definitely
into the faint light.
The maneuver demonstrates that
unidentified flying objects
enter into our atmosphere.
It was the first time such a
clear video showing this kind
of event had been recorded.
Specialists at the Russian
mission control center
call these phenomena anomalies,
a word that actually makes
many significant implications.
In this extraordinary
footage we find ourselves
inside Moscow's
mission control center.
We can see the
Russian space station
projected on the giant screen.
The video camera filming it is
on the American space Shuttle
Discovery.
And it's filming the
moment of separation
from the Mir, which holds the
astronauts Vladimir Solovyov,
and Nikolai Budarin.
The large map shows
the orbital route
followed by the
space station, which
was near the coasts of
South America at the time.
At one point the person
filming in the control center
turns the video camera towards
the large screen to film
a scene that seems
truly unbelievable.
We see a glowing, pulsing sphere
coming from the lower right
fly sideways along the
side of the orbit station,
and immediately
afterward another sphere
moves downward on the right
hand side of the screen.
Then on the right
hand side again
two further spheres appear,
one above and one below,
slowly moving across
the field of vision.
In the top left light panel
we can read the date and time.
18th of November,
1995, at about 12:22.
Finally, yet another
spherical object
appears from above, flying not
far above the space station.
The Russian Space Agency
can give no real explanation
regarding the nature of these
spheres, which, as we've noted,
they very concisely
call anomalies.
The video we're about
to see was recorded
by an American researcher who
prefers to remain anonymous
for security reasons.
A UFO research
enthusiast who has
managed to install four
powerful satellite dishes
in the courtyard of his home.
He intercepted
transmissions made
during the shuttle's
joint mission
with the Mir space station.
The images are astonishing.
As the shuttle docks
and separates from Mir
several pulsating objects
can be seen twirling
near the earthly shuttles.
The maneuvers that many of these
objects make suggest that they
are vehicles equipped with an
autonomous propulsion system,
and that they cannot be
man-made satellites, meteors,
space debris, ice fragments,
or anything of the kind.
Their sudden acceleration,
or sharp halting movements,
seem to demonstrate
that these vehicles may
be built with technologies
unknown to us.
This incredible
document is from mission
STS 84 of the American
space Shuttle Atlantis.
Here we see the entire
filmed sequence.
We can make out part of
the shuttle's hull, and Mir
in the distance.
As the video camera
reduces the field of vision
we note a group of
objects moving away
from the Russian station.
As the camera
continues to zoom in,
two further objects appear,
making a diagonal trajectory
from the lower
right to upper left.
The larger object comes
rather close to Mir.
Then another sphere
emerges on the right,
following the same trajectory
of the previous ones.
Immediately afterward
we note a white sphere
in the lower right hand
corner of the screen,
followed by other smaller
and faster objects.
When this first group is
about to move off screen,
the shuttle's video
camera moves downward,
filming another group of
objects that have moved
toward Mir in the meantime.
As we can see, the largest
of the three objects
halts its course, and,
accelerating slightly,
it changes direction, moving
more vertically than before.
Finally, a new glowing, pulsing
sphere arrives from below.
As soon as it enters
the field of vision,
it changes direction
and speeds up.
Immediately
afterward, this craft
is followed by a
smaller object, and then
by a second, which flies out
from beneath the space station.
We'll now see the
most important phases
of this extraordinary
sequence, enlarged
and at different speeds to show
the maneuvers more clearly.
Naturally, one would think that
if these were flying detritus
or meteors, their number,
frequency, and proximity to Mir
would be a constant danger
to the life of the astronauts
on board, and to the integrity
of the space station itself,
such that it would be
advisable to return to Earth.
If this didn't
happen, it may mean
that many of the
objects we've just seen
are of an entirely
different nature.
According to the most
recent scientific research
there is a direct link between
light spheres and crop circles.
In addition to statements
made by various witnesses,
there are videos in which we
see these little white spheres
floating above the fields where
these fascinating designs have
appeared.
Of all the documents
showing these objects,
the one that has caused
the most sensation
is the video in which
we can see spheres
flying over a wheat field.
In just a few seconds a design
looking like a snowflake
appears in the field.
The video was
recorded at 5 o'clock
in the morning on
August, the 11th, 1996
by John Whabley, an English
crop circle enthusiast,
near Oliver Castle in England.
>>OK.
This is amazing.
>>There has been much
controversy regarding
the authenticity of this video.
But careful analysis conducted
by the American investigator
Jim Dilettoso, an expert in
computerized video analysis,
found no trace of falsification.
>>The key thing is that if
the Oliver's Castle image
was made digitally,
that word digital says
it went into a computer.
In the vertical interval signal
of the copy that we have,
there is no evidence that
it was ever digital format.
So point of the story
is, I find no evidence
of the hoax in the Oliver's
Castle crop circle formation.
And I find enough unique
and interesting things
to think that it very
well could be real
and should be studied further.
>>Other researchers have denied
the authenticity of the video.
But so far no one has been
able to provide valid evidence
to support this argument.
>>Furthermore, the design
appearing in the video
was real, and it had the
features of true crop circles.
However, according to the famous
English crop circle scholar,
engineer Colin
Andrews, some doubts
have been raised due to the
strange behavior of the person
responsible for the video.
>>So I am unfortunately,
as a researcher,
not qualified in that field
simply to accept that Jim
believes it, and others,
it to be technically real,
authentic and if the
[? ground ? ] workings
of the individual concerned
highly questionable.
Well, then I am so sorry not to
be able to totally embrace it.
>>In any case, while waiting
for a definitive verdict,
the video gives us a visual idea
of what happens in these cases,
corresponding to
the statements made
by numerous, reliable witnesses
who have seen such a phenomenon
take place.
>>People tell about
balls of light, whatever
they are, flying
around in crop circles,
flying over the fields,
and sometimes even creating
crop circles.
>>Regardless of whether the
video is authentic or a fake,
one thing is certain.
It illustrates what
many people have
observed throughout the world.
The videos we've seen so far
show an astonishing reality,
unknown to most.
These documents
have emerged thanks
to the investigations
conducted by researcher Giorgio
Bongiovanni.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>>I've been able to collect
these videos and testimonies
thanks to the
cooperative relationship
I've established with some
of the leading UFOlogical
researches and investigators
throughout the world.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>>I believe that
the public ought
to know about these
testimonies and videos,
because today, after so much
skepticism and disbelief,
science is beginning to take
these phenomena seriously,
at least for study purposes.
>>Amongst the scientifically
valid studies on light spheres
and their relationship to
the crop circle phenomenon,
the recent work of
Professor Eltjo Haselhoff
is quite noteworthy.
The professor is currently
one of the leading scholars
of the crop circle phenomenon.
His research has analyzed
the possible link
between the deformations
of the nodes
in the wheat plants
sampled from the crop
circles and an
electromagnetic source placed
at a certain height
above the wheat.
The result of these analyzes
is displayed in this graph.
Each vertical bar represents
the average length
of 20 staves in a specific
area within the circle.
The perfect symmetry in
the graph is astonishing.
The same exact
correspondence was
found in three further cross
sections within the circle.
This is a highly
significant discovery.
The length of the
nodes is perfectly
symmetrical within
the crop circle.
It's circular in shape.
This indicates that
whatever mechanism
created the crop circle also
caused the nodes to lengthen.
If this formation had been
caused by simply flattening
the wheat with an
axle, as many think,
there would be no
reason for the nodes
to grow progressively toward
the center of the crop circle.
>>Every single plant has
the same amount of sunlight,
of water, of
temperature, everything.
So how does a plant somewhat
in the center of the circle
know that it is in the
center of the circle?
If you look at this distribution
of thermal expansion
of these plants, of the cells,
you find that it perfectly
matches the heat
distribution that
would be created by
a little heat source,
a spherical source of
electromagnetic radiation,
which would heat up
the crop, don't ask me
how, the match is just perfect.
And actually you can extract
the height of this source
from the distribution of
this thermal expansion.
And in one case the
height corresponded
to 4 meters and 10 centimeters,
while the eyewitness said
it was about 3 or 4 meters.
The measurements taken for the
average length of the nodes
have been discovered
to correspond perfectly
to theoretical values if
the source of the radiation
had been at a height of 4.1
meters above the plants.
This finding perfectly
fits the statements
made by witnesses and the images
shown in the Oliver Castle
video.
>>And we find
quantitative evidence
which corresponds perfectly
to what these people say.
So at that point in
time you cannot just--
you can't just ignore
what these people say.
You should at least
pay attention to them.
>>Professor Haselhoff
has written an article,
giving details of identical
results achieved in other crop
circles.
In the article he
arrives at the conclusion
that the electromagnetic
light spheres
must be involved with the
development of the crop
circles.
The article was published
in "Physiologia Plantarum,"
a scientific journal on plant
physiology and biophysics.
Thanks to this publication
the idea that the flying light
spheres are in some way
responsible for the crop
circles is no longer
just a hypothesis.
Thus, what we've seen so far has
confirmed that unusual objects
are flying in our
skies, and producing
extraordinary phenomena
such as crop circles.
After the wave of sightings
in the '90s, from 2000 onwards
the activity of the mysterious
flying spheres has continued.
Witnesses with cameras
and video cameras
have continued to record them.
The photographic and filmed
evidence on the spheres
shows that they can
operate in any environment.
The documentation
from 2000 onwards
provides further,
undeniable evidence.
Often the spheres are seen
close to aircraft routes.
These photographs taken by
the vigilantes Fausto Abaroa
and Arturo Robles Gil in
Mexico City are an example.
Video cameras were also
able to record the facts.
We can see it in this
video by Arturo Robles
Gil in Mexico City.
In the film, we can clearly see
that the flying spheres are not
balloons released into the air.
In fact, that are
not affected at all
by the strong turbulence
caused by the passing planes.
[SPEAKING SPANISH]
>>From 2000 to 2008 already
eight years have passed.
I notice that as
time passes by, I've
been filming entities and crafts
that not only are amazing--
[SPEAKING SPANISH]
>>--but even lead the whole
humanity and myself to deeply
reflect and question us.
Are we visited?
Are any beings coming from
the stars, visiting us?
>>The deliberate movement of
these spherical flying objects
is clear from these
extraordinary images.
We can see a metallic
sphere slow down
and almost stop to
let a plane that
was crossing its route pass by.
Once the plane has passed,
the sphere once again
starts to move in
a more jerky way.
These continual
changes in speed almost
seem to be a demonstration for
the benefit of Gil's camera.
In this other video
by Arturo Robles Gil,
we can see another example of
the incredible technical skill
of the spheres.
At times the spheres
follow the planes.
The dynamics of the
film seem to indicate
that the people on board don't
realize what is happening.
The people who study
these phenomena
don't really know what these
spheres are, what they're for,
or who made them.
But it is obvious
that whoever it is,
they are increasingly less
interested in hiding them.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>>I think that these
beings, whoever they are,
show themselves all the time.
We often see them.
This is probably
because they are
teaching us to become
accustomed to their presence,
not to be afraid.
On the contrary.
I believe that they show
themselves so that soon,
perhaps quite soon, there
will be a direct contact,
and they will be able to
show themselves more clearly.
>>As we can see from
the images, at times
the objects are
bright and luminous.
At other times they are
metallic and opaque.
This is clear evidence of
their multiform nature,
the manifestation of a
technology that is still
beyond our understanding.
These photos, taken in
Mexico, show a group
of metallic spheres in flight.
They are amongst the
clearest pictures ever taken.
The author is the
engineer Franklin Rojas.
And the photos
were taken in 2006.
The similarity with the
spheres photographed
by the Hispanic-American
contactee Paul Villa
in New Mexico in 1966
is extraordinary.
Curiously, exactly 40 years have
passed between the two series
of photos.
The movement of this sphere
is another clear example
of the ease with which
they maneuver in flight.
It's difficult to say that
the object is a balloon.
The difference in the
movement is obvious.
Its flight is controlled,
and not caused by the wind.
When it stops almost
completely, it's
even more difficult to say that.
When it's filmed at the
same time as balloons,
the difference is
even more evident.
Salvador Guerrero has been
a vigilante for many years.
And he is the author of
numerous, very important films,
which are now part of the
history of the UFO phenomenon.
[SPEAKING SPANISH]
>>Why do I enjoy it?
Not because I want to
be the best, but one
of the many people who have
proof of the UFO phenomenon.
Who are waiting for the
UFO to show themselves.
There are people
who film birds, who
film hurricanes, and people who
film UFO, Unidentified Objects.
>>Often the spheres appear in
formations, sometimes numerous.
And it was Salvador Guerrero
who filmed this document.
Six spheres in a J shape
flying over Mexico City.
>>When I come across
these objects,
it is very exciting for me
to be able to film them.
Not only to talk
about them, but to be
able to record them on video
using modern technology.
>>On June the 24th,
2005, in the town
of Xalapa in the Veracruz
region of Mexico, the governor,
Don Fidel Herrera del
Beltran is about to take part
in an official ceremony.
Policeman, journalists, and
the public are all present.
Suddenly, above them, they
see the spheres of light.
The governor also sees them and
shouts, "It's the Martians."
[SPEAKING SPANISH]
[LAUGHTER]
>>Certainly amongst
the phenomena
linked to the spheres, one
of the most spectacular
is the flotillas.
The films by Arturo Robles
Gil are undeniable evidence.
The formations
continue to appear.
There are more and more of them.
And they are
increasingly frequent.
The contactees have often said
that the flying spheres are
remote controlled
survey probes, that
also have controls
and monitoring
equipment for flying saucers.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>>The phenomenon of
spheres is strictly
connected with the
unidentified flying object.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>>In Italy, Antonio Urzi filmed
unidentified flying objects
in which we can see spheres
alongside these spaceships.
In the film that Urzi took
on December the 3rd, 2008,
at a certain point
we can clearly
see these spheres alongside what
is obviously a flying saucer.
It's a dark color, which makes
us think it must be metallic.
It's not the first
time that Urzi
has recorded this phenomenon.
In June 2004, he filmed a
sphere near a silvery disk.
Urzi has also filmed
single flying spheres.
This video was taken
on May the 24th, 2009.
The sphere is flying
over the blocks
of flats in Cinisello Balsamo.
Just when it goes out of sight,
Antonio, his wife Simona,
and her little sister
run to another window
of the flat to be able to
observe it a little longer.
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>>Urzi follows sphere until it
disappears into the distance.
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>>The next images of an airplane
show the obvious difference
between the two vehicles.
In July 2009, Urzi
was in Argentina
for a series of conferences.
During a visit to Capilla
del Monte, an area where
UFOs are often seen,
he filmed this sphere
with unusual characteristics.
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>>His wife Simona and
other friends are with him.
The film becomes
even more interesting
when the sphere goes
behind the bushes.
At the end of the video Urzi
also films the other witnesses.
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
>>We also observe
that in flotillas
with hundreds or thousands of
objects, when they are very
close, one to each other,
they move in a swinging way,
as if connected by
a magnetic force.
>>We've seen these
spheres moving
forward, thousands of
them, all at the same time,
and following the
same direction.
We sighted them going
into the clouds.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>>According to several
witnesses they've
been sighted even inside homes.
All this makes me think about it
as a phenomenon to investigate.
It seems to me that these
spheres have no pilot on board.
I believe they are used
sometimes individually,
sometimes in groups
to make observations
and specific investigations.
>>The appearance of
the EBANIs, which
is the Spanish acronym of
Unidentified Aerial Biological
Entities, the incredible
snake like flying objects
has complicated the
incredible phenomenon
of flying spheres even further.
The first sightings
date from the '90s.
Since the year 2000
they have continued
to appear, giving the scholars
a really difficult problem
to solve, and, above
all, to accept.
In fact, the phenomenon
is completely
beyond our recognized parameters
for aircraft technology.
With the EBANIs, the boundaries
between biological nature
and technological
nature seem to blend.
>>What is an EBANI?
It's an Unidentified
Aerial Biological Entity,
which is to say that it behaves
as if it were a living being.
These EBANIs move as if
they were enormous worms
in an organic way.
There are some really
exceptional films
of these objects.
>>In August of 2007
Arturo Robles Gil
filmed a spectacular EBANI
as it emitted the spheres.
As the object moves
into the clouds
we can see how high it is,
and consequently just how huge
it is.
Once again, on
November the 17th,
2008, Gil filmed another
EBANI emitting spheres.
This time the apparatus
is an irregular shape,
and it clearly shows the
polyhedric and multiform
nature of these flying
biological entities.
These films suggest
that the EBANIs
are a sort of aircraft carrier
that transports the spheres.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>>I think that these
enormous bodies, like snakes,
are the way in which the spheres
are transported and moved
around.
It's much easier to move
hundreds or thousands
of spheres in a solid, closed
body, rather than individually.
So I think that the
EBANIs are the origin
of the phenomenon
of the flotillas,
and of the flying
spheres themselves.
>>Often the EBANIs are
accompanied by just one sphere
that the researchers
call the sentry.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>>In several occasions
the EBANIs and spheres
have been filmed together.
And we also observe
that in many cases
they are accompanied by a great
sphere, a royal craft that's
always there.
I don't know why.
But we can see it
in many videos.
>>At other times they appear
together with the flotillas,
as we can see in this
Mexican film from 2007.
We can see the
phenomena progressively
taking shape in this film by
the Mexican Octavio Fernandez.
Octavio also filmed these
EBANIs in various colors.
At times the EBANIs,
like the spheres,
cross the routes of aircraft.
[SPEAKING SPANISH]
>>Considering the
incredulity and the amazement
of the researches themselves,
it is understandable
that the public
thinks of the EBANIs
as balloons floating
through the air.
Everything we've seen
about the flying spheres
already seems complex
and incredible.
But in May 2009, the Mexican
sky-watcher Alfredo Carrillo
filmed a phenomenon that
has never been seen before.
All the objects
are dark colored.
The witness is filming
against the sun.
But there are more
surprises to come.
The event is also being
filmed at the same time
by another witness, the
Mexican Pedro Hernandez.
Initially, Hernandez, just
when he is filming an aircraft
flying past, sees
the same flying
object that Carrillo has
filmed, but with the sunlight
at his back.
So the objects are illuminated.
And the video gives a
better image of the spheres
than we've ever seen before.
Probably Hernandez is closer to
the phenomenon he is filming.
The object starts to
slow its spinning motion.
And then the incredible
scene continues.
Slowly the flotilla
begins to form.
When the film ends
Hernandez comments
on the incredible scene
he's just witnessed.
[SPEAKING SPANISH]
>>Here behind me there
were UFOs moving around,
really beautiful.
They were yellow.
They were really beautiful, and
they were here, just behind me.
>>Comparing the two videos
of Carrillo and Hernandez
we can clearly see that it
really is the same phenomenon.
The statements by witnesses,
the investigations,
the exceptional images
leave little room
for theories of fraud, mass
hallucinations, or pranks.
It is really difficult to
think that the spheres are not
real, or the result
of intelligent life.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>>The spheres are an
intelligent phenomenon.
I have no doubt.
And we have accumulated
lots of film
where we can see this
intelligent movement.
They are part of a project that
is even greater than they are.
That's why we should
believe that we are dealing
with a phenomenon that
shows the interest towards
and the investigation
upon us, human beings.
>>Perhaps one day
this reality will
be accepted by the authorities.
Or perhaps it will be
the phenomenon itself
that forces us to accept
it without waiting
for human decisions.
It wouldn't be the first time.
In the past events have
changed human history.
Will we be taken by
surprise this time too?
[MUSIC PLAYING]